Create a CloudFormation template defining S3 bucket creation in YAML format. Use the template below and create a file in your system; we will use that to create an S3 bucket.

Resources:
  MyBucket:
    Type: AWS::S3::Bucket
    Properties:
      BucketName: kk-bucket-xxxx

In the bucket name, extend the bucket name with a random letter and alphabet, for example, kk-bucket-xxxx

======
Deploy the CloudFormation template as a stack using the AWS Management Console.
Give name kk-CFPractice as name to your stack.


Note: Perform lab in the us-east-1 region.
Navigate to the AWS CloudFormation service.

Click on the 'Create stack' button to go to the stack creation form
In 'Prerequisite - Prepare template', select the 'Template is ready' option
In the 'Specify Template' section, select the 'Upload a template file' option
Click on Choose file, upload the file that you created in the previous question to AWS Console, and click on 'Next' button
Give a name to your stack kk-CFPractice and click on Next button.
Leave all options to default in the configure stack options section and click on Next button.
Review your stack details and click Submit button to deploy the resources.

===
Now, update a CloudFormation stack you created before this question. Use the below template to update the YAML file in your system and upload it to AWS console.

Resources:
  MyBucket:
    Type: AWS::S3::Bucket
    Properties:
      BucketName: kk-bucket-xxxx
      VersioningConfiguration:
        Status: Enabled

Update the template you used and upload the same. Remember to use the same bucket name.

Select the stack you created and click on the update button.
Click on Replace current template option.
In the specify template section, select Upload a template file, click on Choose file, and upload the template file.
Click on Next button.
Keep Stack-specific files and Configure stack sections default, and in the preview section, observe the Changes tab and click on Submit button.

====

To monitor the progress and status of a CloudFormation stack:

In the AWS Management Console, navigate to the stack kk-CFPractice.
Click the Events tab to view the stack events and status.
Review the Event status for errors or warnings.



